<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" style="font-size:1.200rem;"><head><title>Customer support</title><link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.75.2"/></head><body id="page"><div class="section" title="Customer support" id="aid-CCNA1"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h1 class="title"><a id="ch00lvl1sec07"></a>Customer support</h1></div></div></div><p>Now that you are the proud owner of a Packt book, we have a number of things to help you to get the most from your purchase.</p><div class="section" title="Downloading the example code"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 class="title"><a id="ch00lvl2sec03"></a>Downloading the example code</h2></div></div></div><p>You can download the example code files from your account at <a class="ulink" href="http://www.packtpub.com">http://www.packtpub.com</a> for all the Packt Publishing books you have purchased. If you purchased this book elsewhere, you can visit <a class="ulink" href="http://www.packtpub.com/support">http://www.packtpub.com/support</a> and register to have the files e-mailed directly to you.</p></div><div class="section" title="Errata"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 class="title"><a id="ch00lvl2sec04"></a>Errata</h2></div></div></div><p>Although we have taken every care to ensure the accuracy of our content, mistakes do happen. If you find a mistake in one of our books&mdash;maybe a mistake in the text or the code&mdash;we would be grateful if you could report this to us. By doing so, you can save other readers from frustration and help us improve subsequent versions of this book. If you find any errata, please report them by visiting <a class="ulink" href="http://www.packtpub.com/submit-errata">http://www.packtpub.com/submit-errata</a>, selecting your book, clicking on the <span class="strong"><strong>Errata Submission Form</strong></span> link, and entering the details of your errata. Once your errata are verified, your submission will be accepted and the errata will be uploaded to our website or added to any list of existing errata under the Errata section of that title.</p><p>To view the previously submitted errata, go to <a class="ulink" href="https://www.packtpub.com/books/content/support">https://www.packtpub.com/books/content/support</a> and enter the name of the book in the search field. The required information will appear under the <span class="strong"><strong>Errata</strong></span> section.</p></div><div class="section" title="Piracy"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 class="title"><a id="ch00lvl2sec05"></a>Piracy</h2></div></div></div><p>Piracy of copyrighted material on the Internet is an ongoing problem across all media. At Packt, we take the protection of our copyright and licenses very seriously. If you come across any illegal copies of our works in any form on the Internet, please provide us with the location address or website name immediately so that we can pursue a remedy.</p><p>Please contact us at <code class="email">&lt;<a class="email" href="mailto:copyright@packtpub.com">copyright@packtpub.com</a>&gt;</code> with a link to the suspected pirated material.</p><p>We appreciate your help in protecting our authors and our ability to bring you valuable content.</p></div><div class="section" title="Questions"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 class="title"><a id="ch00lvl2sec06"></a>Questions</h2></div></div></div><p>If you have a problem with any aspect of this book, you can contact us at <code class="email">&lt;<a class="email" href="mailto:questions@packtpub.com">questions@packtpub.com</a>&gt;</code>, and we will do our best to address the problem.</p></div></div></body></html>