<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" style="font-size:1.200rem;"><head><title>Chapter&nbsp;10.&nbsp;Localize the App</title><link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.75.2"/></head><body id="page"><div class="chapter" title="Chapter&nbsp;10.&nbsp;Localize the App" id="aid-27GQ61"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h1 class="title"><a id="ch10"></a>Chapter&nbsp;10.&nbsp;Localize the App</h1></div></div></div><p>This chapter explains how to write a multilingual app. Localization, also known as Internationalization (I18N), takes care that a software application can be adapted and rendered in different languages without changes in the source code. This is particularly important in a web application where users speak different languages.</p><p>Yii provides powerful tools to handle this task, choosing from the file or database approach (according to the application's complexity). We will cover the following topics:</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem">Setting the default language</li><li class="listitem">File-based translations<div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem">Example &ndash; using file-based translation for the entire website</li></ul></div></li><li class="listitem">Placeholders formatting</li><li class="listitem">DB-based translations<div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem">Example &ndash; translating the room's description using DB</li></ul></div></li></ul></div><div class="section" title="Setting the default language"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h1 class="title"><a id="ch10lvl1sec69"></a>Setting the default language</h1></div></div></div><p>A Yii application <a id="id440" class="indexterm"></a>uses two kinds of languages: source language and target language.</p><p>Source language specifies the language employed to write the source code; the default setting is <code class="literal">en-US</code>, and it is advisable not to change this value since English is the most used and known language in software development. On the other hand, there is a target language used to display content to end users, and we are going to work specifically on this aspect.</p><p>This language can be set in the configuration file using the <code class="literal">language</code> property:</p><div class="informalexample"><pre class="programlisting">return [
    // set target language to be Italian
    'language' =&gt; 'it-IT',
   
      ....
      ....
];</pre></div><p>Alternatively, you can use the following code:</p><div class="informalexample"><pre class="programlisting">// change target language to Italian
\Yii::$app-&gt;language = 'it-IT';</pre></div><p>Now, let's see<a id="id441" class="indexterm"></a> how to handle app localization in practice.</p></div></div></body></html>