<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" style="font-size:1.200rem;"><head><title>About the Reviewers</title><link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.75.2"/></head><body id="page"><div class="preface" title="About the Reviewers" id="aid-5N3C1"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h1 class="title"><a id="pref03"></a>About the Reviewers</h1></div></div></div><p>
<span class="strong"><strong>Tristan Bendixen</strong></span> is currently pursuing a master's degree as a software engineer, having been passionate about programming for most of his life. He has worked as a developer on diverse projects, ranging from commercial and corporate websites to mobile phone apps and desktop applications.</p><p>He continues to work as a software developer alongside his studies, on paid projects, as well as some open source ones, which he helps with when time permits.</p><div class="sidebar"><div class="inner"><p class="title"><b></b></p><p>I would like to thank my beloved mother and younger brother for their love and support in my constant endeavors to become a better developer, and my friends at Aalborg University for being awesome sparring partners on projects and classes alike.</p></div></div><p>
<span class="strong"><strong>Samuel Liew</strong></span> is a full-stack web developer who enjoys producing solutions with interesting and challenging requirements. He has experience of developing a diverse range of websites, such as governmental sites, public utilities, real estate, investor relations, contests, touchscreen kiosks, iPad feedback apps, blogs and magazines, and media news. He has also been involved with creating two proprietary content management systems using C#.NET/MongoDB and PHP/Yii/MySQL. His latest accomplishment is the development of a microstock photography website (<a class="ulink" href="http://vivistock.com">http://vivistock.com</a>) using the Yii Framework, which involves e-commerce transactions and implements heavy business logic.</p></div></body></html>