<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" style="font-size:1.200rem;"><head><title>About the Author</title><link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets V1.75.2"/></head><body id="page"><div class="preface" title="About the Author" id="aid-4OIQ1"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h1 class="title"><a id="pref02"></a>About the Author</h1></div></div></div><p>
<span class="strong"><strong>Fabrizio Caldarelli</strong></span> is an Italian programmer who started his professional career in his youth by programming with desktop-oriented languages, the first being Visual Basic. From the year 2000 onward, he spent 5 years developing software to manage radio broadcasts. During that period, he studied C#.NET to make porting of all software versus this new platform.</p><p>During the same period, he learned web programming, HTML, and ASP, and in 2003, he began to develop software using PHP as the default programming language for web pages. During those years, he collaborated as a teacher for PHP programming courses with <a class="ulink" href="http://www.html.it/">http://www.html.it/</a>, an important online reference for developers in Italy.</p><p>In 2008, he added new skills to his experience by starting to develop mobile projects for Nokia devices with Symbian C++, and a few years later, he started working on projects for iOS, Android, and naturally Windows phone.</p><p>After many PHP-based web projects, in late 2012, he moved on to the Yii framework as his primary framework for developing web applications.</p><p>Since then, he has built many important projects based on Yii 1 and later on Yii 2, day by day discovering the powerful improvement that Yii provides to getting work done.</p><p>Now he lives in Sacrofano, a small town near Rome, with his wife, Serena.</p><div class="sidebar"><div class="inner"><p class="title"><b></b></p><p>I want to thank Erika Accili for supporting me during the writing and organization of this book. I also want to thank my wife, Serena, for sustaining me during all the work, and for the rest of her life indeed!</p></div></div></div></body></html>